
## App Services

### SKU's

- **Basic Tier**
  - Scaling is manual
- **Standard or upper service tiers**
  - Scaling is automatic
  - ❗ Standard tier allows to scale up to 10 instances.
    - 💡 If you still need more instances you can go to the **Isolated tier** where you can scale up to 100 instances
- 💡 It's recommended to use the Standard or Premium tiers in order to support autoscale and SSL.

### Authorization

- **Allow all requests**
  - Use your own authentication and authorization code.
- **Allow only authenticated requests**
  - User is challenged or returned 401
- **Allow Anonymous requests**
  - Handles authentication & authorization
  - Defers authorization decisions to your application code

### App Types

#### Web Apps

- Low friction Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) offering to host your web applications in the Azure platform.
- The service is fully managed and you can easily configure advanced features such as AlwaysOn, custom domains, and autoscale by using either portal.
- **Deploy**: Git, Kudu, Microsoft Visual Studio through FTP or Web Deploy protocol.
- Supports .NET, Java, PHP, Node.js, or Python
- **Easy scaling**: **Autoscale** creates multiple instances of your Web App that are automatically load balanced so that your application can meet potential spikes in demand.

##### Web app containers

- The Linux variant specifically offers the ability to host Docker containers directly using a Web App.
- The docker containers can be sourced from Docker Hub, Azure Container Registry or GitHub.
- Containers can be deployed manually, or deployed in a streamlined continuous integration process using Docker Hub or GitHub.

#### API apps

- Specialized version of Web Apps designed to server different purposes in an all-up solution on Azure.
- Support for developing, hosting and securing your custom API's in the context of App.
- It can run either custom code or can run pre-built software to connect to existing popular SaaS solutions through Logic App.
- API Apps share a lot of the same features and support as Web Apps.
- Integrates seamlessly with API Management.
- ***Easy authentication***: service-to-service or CORS.

#### Mobile Apps

- Mobile App endpoints are REST APIs.
- Provides capabilities of:
  - **Single sign on**: From list of Azure AD.
  - **Offline sync**: Work offline when connectivity is not available, and synchronize with your enterprise backend systems when devices comes back online.
    - Any data source including, SQL, Table Storage,Mongo, or Document DB, and any SaaS API including Office 365, Salesforce, Dynamics, or on-premises databases.
  - **Push notifications**: You can easily hook Notification Hubs to any existing app backend.
  - **Auto scaling**
- Client SDKs are available to connect mobile app to a Mobile App instance for its backend data.
  - Supported for: *• Xamarin Android/IOS, • Android Native, • IOS Native, • Windows Store, • Windows Phone, • .NET, • HTML*
