
# Authoring Serverless Applications in Azure

## Azure Functions

- Function Apps were implemented using the existing code and base functionality for **Azure WebJobs**.
- Function Apps can be created using one of two models:
  - **App Service** : Function Apps exist as another kind of app within an App Service Plan.
  - **Consumption** :
    - The consumption model allows you to pay for Function Apps based on execution time as opposed to having a dedicated App Service Plan.
    - Function Apps are billed at a rate specific to Gigabyte Seconds after a specific free monthly allocation threshold has been met.
- Function Apps share a lot of functionality with other App types such as Web Apps. You can configure App Settings, Connection Strings, AlwaysOn, Continous Deployment and many other settings that are configurable in a Web App instance.
  - Enable AlwaysOn for Function App to respond to requests as quickly as possible.

### Authorization

- **Anonymous**: No API key is required.
- **Function**: A function-specific API key is required.
- **Admin**: The master key is required.

### Triggers

- A **Trigger** is any event that invokes an Azure Function.
- A function can have triggers for many different scenarios including: • Creation of Blobs • Changes to data in Cosmos DB • External File or Table changes • HTTP requests • OneDrive or Excel files • E-mail messages • Mobile Apps • SendGrid e-mails • Twilio Text Messages
- A function can also be triggered by existing messaging services including: • Service Bus • Storage Queues • Logic Apps • Event Grid • Event Hubs • Webhooks

## Integration

### API Management

- Provides developer engagement, business insights, analytics, security and protection.
- Flow
  - Administrators create APIs.
    - Each API consists of one or more operations, and each API can be added to one or more products.
      - A **product** is segmentation/grouping of APIs.
        - Access policies can be enforced.
        - Defines APIs (endpoints)
  - **Subscribers:** Developers/B2B partners subscribe to a product that contains that API, and then they can call the API's operation, subject to any usage policies that may be in effect.
- Portals
  - **Publisher portal:** Admin portal.
    - Configures API's & products & subscribers.
  - **Developer portal:** Partners can test the services.
- Example:
  | API | Products | Subscribers |
  | --- | --- | --- |
  | • `DEVICEINFO` • `BUILDINFO` • `ORDERS` • `DELIVERYORDER` • `SHIPMENT` • `MILESTONES` • `RETURNDEVICE` | • DCServicesExternal • DCServicesInternal • MakeInternal • MakeExternal • ReturnsInternal • ReturnsExternal | • Arvato • Ups • Fedex • Walmart • Amazon  |

### Logic Apps

- Workflows that can connect various components of your application together using minimal or no-code.
- Designed using JSON.
- Logic Apps can integrate with existing services using built-in connectors:
  - E.g. SQL Server • OneDrive • Dropbox • Twilio • SendGrid • Cosmos DB • Event Grid • Event Hubs • Storage Blobs, Queues and Tables • Mobile Apps
- Logic Apps can also integrate with custom APIs that are deployed as API Apps in your subscription.
- The main components of a Logic App are as follows:
  - **Workflow** : The business process described as a series of steps, in an acyclic graph (loops are not supported).
  - **Triggers** : The step that starts a new workflow instance.
  - **Actions** : A step in a workflow, typically a Connector or a custom API App.
  - **Connector** : A special case of API App ready made to integrate a specific service (e.g., Twitter) or data source (e.g., SQL Server).
- E.g. Azure Service Bus Connector to queue processing that you will run on HDInsight against some big data, and then send the result via an SMS message using the Twilio connector.

### Traffic Manager

- Automatically fails over if the primary region becomes unavailable.
  - **Multi-region model**
    - Using a multi-region architecture provides a higher availability of your applications.
    - 💡 Have paired region as secondary region as paired regions are prioritized during outage.
- Supports different routing algorithms
  - E.g. priority routing (formerly called failover routing): all requests are sent to prioritized endpoint until it's unhealthy.
- Example
  - Regions
    - ***Active region***: Where application with SQL lies.
    - ***Standby region***: Where application exists and SQL is replicated.
  - A regional outage affects the primary region, you can use Traffic Manager to fail over to the secondary region.
  - Use SQL database geo-replication to the standby region.
