# Bots

## Bot Services

- PaaS
- Provides an integrated environment that is purpose-built for bot development, enabling you to build, connect, test, deploy, and manage intelligent bots, all from one place.
- You can write a bot, connect, test, deploy, and manage it from your web browser with no separate editor or source control required.
  - For simple bots, you may not need to write code at all.
- Your code glues in an HTTP REST endpoint the following:
  - Platform: Platform Services
  - AI: Intelligent Tools
  - SDK: **Bot Builder SDK**
- Key concepts:
  - **Multiple language support** : Bot Service leverages ***Bot Builder SDK*** with support for .NET and Node.js.
  - **Bot templates** : Bot Service templates allow you to create a bot with the code and features you need.
    - E.g.:
      - Forms bot for collecting user input
      - a Language understanding bot that leverages LUIS to understand user intent
      - a QnA bot to handle FAQs
      - a Proactive bot that alerts users of events.
  - **Bring your own dependencies** : Bots support NuGet and NPM, so you can use your favorite packages in your bot.
  - **Flexible development** : Code your bot right in the Azure portal or set up continuous integration and deploy your bot through GitHub, Visual Studio Team Services, and other supported development tools. You can also publish from Visual Studio.
  - **Connect to channels** : Bot Service supports popular channels for connecting your bots and the people that use them.
    - E.g. Skype, Facebook, Teams, Slack, SMS, and others.
  - **Tools and services** : Test your bot with the Bot Framework Emulator and preview your bot on different channels with the Channel Inspector.
  - **Open source** : The Bot Builder SDK is open-source and available on GitHub.

## QnA Maker

- Trains AI to respond to user's questions in a more natural, conversational way.
- Provides a GUI that allows non-developers to train, manage, and use the service for a wide range of solutions.
- Extracts a knowledge base from two types of input: FAQ pages (web pages or documents) and product manuals (PDF).
  - Once extracted, the QnA Maker service creates a **knowledge base** and bot using the knowledge bas
- Handles Index & Ranking
- It can be consumed through REST API
- Over time, the knowledge base can be updated, retrained, and republished to meet the morphing needs to a user-facing web application.
